HR Service Rules Handbook For Internal Employees’ Use Only Company Vision & Mission Company Vision The vision of the Company is: “bKash aspires to be a global trend setter in financial inclusion, and a contributor in enriching people’s lives through alternative platforms.” Company Mission The Mission of the Company is: “To be the most preferred financial services provider for all walks of life by providing affordable and innovative services for empowering lives.” Company Values The company has the following values that all employees should understand and adhere to while working in the company: Customer Centric • We are for our customers • We understand and value the needs of our customers • We provide reliable, affordable and convenient solutions to customers Innovative • We encourage new ideas and drive changes • We experiment to bring customer centric solutions • We continuously improve with creativity & curiosity Collaborative • We are respectful and unified in all dealings • We share resources and co-create to bring collective results • We nurture an open, transparent and trusting environment Agile • We rapidly meet customer needs and expectations • We learn fast and adapt to changes • We are empowered to fulfill our purpose Ethical • We are fair and consistent in all dealings • We conduct with integrity and never compromise on it • We comply with our Code of Conduct and relevant laws of the land Compensation, Benefits & Procedures Compensation & Benefits Workers Profit Participation Fund (WPPF) Unless otherwise contrary stated in the laws of Bangladesh or any other applicable relevant legislation(s), the Company, for the sole benefit and interests of the employees has created and established a Workers Profit Participation Fund (WPPF) and Workers Welfare Fund. The fund shall consist of the contribution made by the Company out of its Net Profit. The Company shall, within 09 (nine) months from the end of a financial year, pay an amount equivalent to eighty percent (80%) and ten percent (10%) of the five percent of its Net Profits of that financial year to the Workers Profit Participation Fund (WPPF) and Workers Welfare Fund, respectively. The remaining ten per cent (10%) of the Net Profits shall be paid by the Company to the Bangladesh Workers Welfare Foundation Fund. Beneficiaries & Eligibility to Funds: • The Funds are established for the benefit of the persons who are employed by or to be in employment with the Company for a continuous period of not less than nine (9) months including the person appointed as an intern provided that such person is not a shareholder or director of the Company (Beneficiary(s)). • All Beneficiaries shall be eligible to the benefits in equal proportions to participate in the Funds. • A Beneficiary not completing six (6) months of employment with the Company during a year of account shall not participate in the Funds in respect of that year. • A Beneficiary voluntarily leaving the employment of the Company or being terminated from the services otherwise than by of dismissal shall receive benefits of the Participation Fund and the Welfare Fund as admissible to him/her under these Rules. • A Beneficiary who is dismissed from the services shall forfeit his share in the Funds. • A Beneficiary in the event of his/her retirement or his/her nominated beneficiary, in the event of his/her death while in the employment of the Company, shall receive full benefits of these Funds. Compensation & Benefits Provident Fund The permanent employees, upon successful completion of probation period, are eligible to become member of the Provident Fund. The employee contributes 10% of his/her basic salary to the provident fund and the company makes an equal contribution to the fund. Eligibility of Provident Fund: Advance from Provident Fund: Any member can take advance from the provident fund balance of his/her account subject to the approval of the Board of Trustees as per the defined terms mentioned in the bKash Limited Employees' Provident Fund Deed & Rules. The provident fund is governed by the bKash Limited Employees' Provident Fund Deed & Rules. Criteria Length of Continuous Service Eligibility Member’s Contribution + share of profit Company’s Contribution + share of profit If employment period is equal or more than 24 months and membership of the fund for 12 months 100% 100% If the above conditions are not fulfilled 100% 0% Compensation & Benefits Special Allowance Special Allowance is applicable for the regular employees who need to work anytime between 11.00 PM to 6.00 AM irrespective of their job grade. The employee will be entitled to BDT 500 per day working on a monthly basis for the total days worked in a month. This allowance will be in addition to monthly gross salary & other benefits. This work will require pre-approval from the Department Head and Divisional Head. This Allowance is applicable for work from Home/Office location. The employee entitled to Special Allowance will not be eligible for Shift (Night Shift Working) Allowance mentioned above. Leave & Travel Policy Leave & Travel Paternity Leave • A regular male employee is entitled to paternity leave of 5 (five) working days if he has completed service with the company for a period of not less than six months on the day he becomes father with full pay • This leave has to be availed within 1 (one) month of the child birth • If the employee has two or more surviving children, he will not be entitled to paternity leave. However, he may take annual leave for the same purpose. Travel • An employee may travel upon business requirements with the approval of respective line manager for travelling within the country and with the consent of respective line managers, approval of Division Head and of CEO for Foreign/Overseas Travel • Details on Travel can be viewed from “Employee Travel and Transfer Guideline” attached herewith. Anti-Bribery & Corruption, Loan & Investments Anti-Bribery & Corruption Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABC) Policy bKash expects that all the employees shall maintain and promote the highest ethical and legal standards in their conduct, especially in relation to Bribery and Corruption. The employees have to strictly adhere to the “Group Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy” as attached while dealing with internal and external stakeholders. This policy contains guidelines regarding gifts, hospitality, donation, intermediary appointment and whistle blowing. Details on Anti-Bribery and Corruption can be viewed from “Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABC) Policy” attached herewith. Loan & Investments Loan & Investments The practice of giving or taking loans between employees or to/from a customer is strictly prohibited. It is also prohibited for the employees from engaging in any sort of personal financial dealing with any stakeholders (e.g. Vendor, Distribution House, Agent, Merchant etc.) Employees must not: a. Engage in any activity that competes with the business interests of the company. b. Hold a financial interest (e.g., ownership, stocks, or shares) in any organization that conducts business with the company. Disclosure Obligations Employees are required to disclose any actual, potential, or perceived conflicts of interest regarding ownership in other organizations which has conflict of interest with the company’s business, to their immediate supervisor or the Human Resources Division as soon as they become aware of the conflict. Review and Resolution The company will evaluate disclosed conflicts and determine the appropriate course of action, which may include: a. Reassignment of duties. b. Written authorization to proceed under specific conditions. c. Termination of employment if the conflict cannot be resolved satisfactorily. Disciplinary Action Failure to disclose a conflict of interest or engaging in prohibited activities may result in disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal of employment. Ongoing Responsibility The obligations under this section apply throughout the duration of employment. Employees are required to disclose any conflicts that may arise at any point during their tenure with the Company. Thank You!