Employee Travel and Transfer Guideline Page 1 of 4 Employee Travel Guideline Prologue An employee may travel upon business requirements with the approval of respective line manager for travelling within the country and with consent of respective line managers, approval of Division Head and of CEO for Foreign/Overseas Travel. The employee is entitled to travel for official purpose on the basis of either advance payment or may claim for reimbursement upon return. The employee shall settle the advance payment or shall claim the travel expenses as the case may be, along with the vouchers and receipts with the supervisor’s and Division Head’s approval. Finance team shall disburse the claimable amount to the employee accordingly as per the disbursement policy. Process At all times of within the country or overseas travel, the following procedures shall apply: Local Travel: Authorization: All local travel must have prior authorization from competent authority. Authorization will be given as follows: Situation Approval authority For entitled local travel (Assistant Officer & above) Line Manager An exception to the mode of transport for local travel (Regular/Non- Regular/Consultant) Line Manager, Division Head Mode of Transport: During local travel, employees are entitled to avail the following modes of transport: Grade Mode Grade 1A to 7A Air/first class train/launch/steamer/bus (A/C) Depending on business need or emergency situation, an exception to above mode of transport may be made subject to approval of respective Divisional Head on a case to case basis. Hotel Accommodation: During local travel, the maximum claimable hotel rent (in BDT)/day (inclusive VAT and TAX) with supporting vouchers is as follows: Grade Dhaka/Chattogram/Sylhet/Cox’s Bazar Other Divisional Cities/Towns Other Towns Grade 1A – 2A Actual Actual Actual Grade 3S – 4B 10,000 8,000 6,000 Grade 5A – 7A 7,000 6,000 5,000 However, without supporting vouchers, a lump-sum amount will be paid which is as follows (in BDT)/day (when an employee decides to stay on his/her own arrangement): Grade All Divisional Cities/Towns Other Towns Grade 1A – 7A 2,000 1,500 Page 2 of 4 Daily Allowance: Employees are eligible for daily allowance (in BDT) while travelling within the country. The breakdown of daily allowance for local travel are as follows: Grade Breakfast Lunch Dinner Incidental Allowance Total Amount Grade 1A to 7A 1,500 • If breakfast is complementary with hotels or employees are decided to stay on his/her own arrangement or employees are not staying at the hotel in previous night(s), the amount for breakfast is not claimable • Dinner allowance is not claimable if the employees are not staying night at the hotel • Incidental Allowance are eligible for all days during the travel period (inclusive travel start & end days) • The above mentioned amount is claimable as fixed allowance, hence no supporting bill/vouchers are required * Note: i) Field employees who are entitled to fixed allowance will not be eligible for Daily Allowance within their Base Station. However, field employees who will be travelling outside Base Station will be eligible for Travel, Accommodation & Daily Allowance ii) No cash out charge is applicable for any kind of claim submission/settlement Foreign/Overseas Travel Group I Locations: Applicable for locations such as Hong Kong, Western Europe & UK, North America, Brazil, Argentina, South Africa, Middle East, Japan, Korea, Australia, New Zealand, Singapore, Bangalore, Mumbai, Delhi. Group II Locations: Applicable for locations such as Central & Eastern Europe, Thailand, Malaysia, Philippines, Indonesia, Africa, China, South America, Kolkata and Chennai, Pakistan, Nepal, Sri Lanka and rest of India. Authorization: All foreign/overseas travel must have prior authorization from competent authority. Authorization will be given as follows: Situation Approval authority For entitled foreign/overseas travel (Assistant Officer & above) Line Manager, Division Head and CEO An exception to the mode of transport for local travel (Regular/Non- Regular/Consultant) Line Manager, Division Head and CEO Air Tickets: During foreign/overseas travel, employees are entitled to avail the following air tickets: Grade Group I Locations Group II Locations Grade 1A Business Class Business Class Grade 1B Below 5 Hours: Economy Class 5 Hours or above: Business Class Below 5 Hours: Economy Class 5 Hours or above: Business Class Grade 2A – 7A Economy Class Economy Class Hotel Accommodation: During foreign/overseas travel, the maximum claimable hotel rent (in USD)/day (inclusive VAT and TAX) with supporting vouchers is as follows: Grade Group I Locations Group II Locations Grade 1A USD 600.00 USD 500.00 Grade 1B USD 400.00 USD 350.00 Grade 2A – 4B USD 350.00 USD 300.00 Grade 5A – 7A USD 300.00 USD 250.00 Page 3 of 4 Daily Allowance: During foreign/overseas travel, employees are eligible for daily allowance (in USD) as follows: Grade Group I Locations Group II Locations Grade 1A USD 250.00 USD 200.00 Grade 1B USD 200.00 USD 150.00 Grade 2A – 7A USD 150.00 USD 120.00 Daily Allowance will be calculated based on the day of travelling (flight departure & flight arrival day). Air Tickets/Boarding Passes are required to submit with the travel expense claim for identifying the day of travelling. The above mentioned amount is claimable as fixed allowance, hence no supporting bill/vouchers are required. Note: Daily Allowance includes Lunch, Dinner & Incidental Allowance only, however, no amount can be claimed in respect of alcoholic beverages, cigarettes etc. This allowance does not include conveyance., To claim conveyance, voucher/bill needs to be submitted. Travel Advance/Travel Claim: Employee may take advance against local/international travel with prior approval from the Line Manager. All travel advances/actual travel expenses should be settled/claimed within 60 calendar days from the travel completion. After 60 calendar days no claim will be reimbursed and unsettled advances shall be adjusted from the salary of the employee. Travel at Night: Employee should not travel in highway roads after sunset for official purposes. In case of emergency or business requirement, employee must obtain prior approval from Divisional Head for such night travel. However, there is no restriction on Train/Launch & Air travel at night. Employee Transfer Guideline Prologue The company has the right to transfer an employee form one location to another at any time for any circumstances depending on the company’s needs. A transfer order can be delivered at a short notice. Supervisors/Managers may exercise discretion to improve the utilization of the human resources by moving employees into other roles. Transfer can also be beneficial as the employee will achieve new skills and a different perspective from the new job role/function/position. During transfer an employee’s salary and benefits level remain the same. Process There can be two types of transfer as follows: A. Temporary Transfer: placement at another location for a period of less than or equals to 30 calendar days is treated as temporary transfer. B. Permanent Transfer: placement at another location for a period of more than 30 calendar days is treated as permanent transfer. Page 4 of 4 A) Temporary transfer initiated by bKash: Upon temporary transfer between cities, employee will be entitled to the following: a) Mode of Travel and expenses: Mode of travel and expenses will be as per the prescribed rate laid down in the above Local Travel Guideline b) Hotel Accommodation: Maximum 30 calendar days of hotel accommodation in an approved hotel as per the prescribed rate laid down in the above Local Travel Guideline c) Daily Allowance: Maximum 30 calendar days of daily allowances as per the prescribed rate laid down in the above Local Travel Guideline B) Permanent transfer initiated by bKash: Upon transfer between cities, if the employee shifts residence, then the employee will be entitled to the followings: a) Mode of Travel and expenses: Mode of travel and expenses for one-time/one-way fare for self, spouse and children will be provided as per the prescribed rate laid down in the above Local Travel Guideline. b) Hotel Accommodation: Maximum of 14 calendar days of transit accommodation in any hotel as the prescribed rate laid down in the above Local Travel Guideline during transit. However, if any official travel is required due to business urgencies (such as Induction Program, Regional Meeting etc.) within these 14 calendar days, that travel days will be excluded from this accommodation. A separate travel itinerary needs to be approved and a separate claim needs to be submitted for such settlement. Note: The above arrangements (a & b) are also applicable for the newly joined employees who are placed in Regions/bKash Centers and required time to settle down in their new location. c) Daily Allowance: Maximum 14 calendar days of daily allowance (at one go or cumulative) as per the prescribed rate laid down in the above Local Travel Guideline. d) Transfer Allowance: A one-time Transfer Allowance of BDT 15,000 will be paid to employees to cover any out-of-pocket expenses incurred in re-settling in the new city/town, including any other new costs. The Transfer Allowance will be paid along with the salary in the month following the transfer and will be subject to income tax. e) Packer’s Cost: Employee will be reimbursed the costs of packing, moving, insurance and freight at actual with supporting vouchers not exceeding BDT 30,000. This cost is applicable for all city/town and Territory transfer (more than 15 kilometer road distance). f) Transit Leave: An employee may avail a period of 3 (Three) working days as transit leave before joining the new place of position. No transit leave is allowed if the transfer is made within the same district even if physical relocation is resulted. All costs pertaining to the transfer of an employee will be picked up by the receiving Business Unit. Effective Date This guideline shall come into effect from January 01, 2025.