HKG3363062/1165550-0001 Page | 1 GROUP ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION POLICY bKash Limited HKG3363062/1165550-0001 Page | 2 CONTENTS Sections Page Group Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy ....................................................................................................................................... 3 1. Group Policy ......................................................................................................................................................................................... 3 2. Management Oversight and Leadership .................................................................................................................................. 3 3. Definitions of Bribery and Corruption ..................................................................................................................................... 3 4. Prohibition on Bribery and Corruption Criminal Act ........................................................................................................ 4 5. Dealing with intermediaries ......................................................................................................................................................... 5 6. Political and Charitable Donations ............................................................................................................................................. 5 7. Gifts, Hospitality and Entertainment ......................................................................................................................................... 6 8. Facilitation Payments ....................................................................................................................................................................... 7 9. Conflicts of Interest ........................................................................................................................................................................... 7 10. Books and Records ....................................................................................................................................................................... 7 11. Training ............................................................................................................................................................................................. 8 12. Whistle-Blowing, Investigations and Non-Retaliation ................................................................................................. 8 13. Compliance ...................................................................................................................................................................................... 8 14. Continuous Monitoring and Improvement ....................................................................................................................... 8 15. The ABC Compliance Officer / Legal, Secretarial & Corporate Governance Division .................................... 9 16. Advice and Assistance ................................................................................................................................................................ 9 Group Political and Charitable Donations Policy.......................................................................................................................... 10 Group Gifts, Hospitality and Entertainment Policy and Procedures ................................................................................... 15 Group Whistle Blower and Investigations Policy ......................................................................................................................... 18 Group Intermediary Appointment Policy and Procedures ...................................................................................................... 22 HKG3363062/1165550-0001 Page | 3 Group Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy 1. Group Policy 1.1 bKash Limited (the Company) and its subsidiaries and associates from time to time (referred to in this Policy as the Group) and their employees shall maintain and promote the highest ethical and legal standards in their business, especially in relation to Bribery and Corruption. 1.2 This policy on Anti-Bribery and Corruption, including Groups Gifts, Hospitality And Entertainment Policy and Procedures, Group Political and Charitable Donations Policy, Group Whistle Blower and Investigations Policy, Group Intermediary Appointment Policy and Procedures, (hereinafter referred to as the Policy) applies to all Group companies and employees’ dealings in both the public and the private sectors, and any violation of this Policy is a matter of serious concern with possible legal consequences. 1.3 All Group companies and employees (which, for the purposes of this Policy, include senior management, officers, directors and other similar positions) must comply with this Policy. 2. Management Oversight and Leadership 2.1 The Company’s Board of Directors, together with its Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Chief Financial Officer (CFO), ABC Compliance Officer and Chief Human Resource Officer (CHRO) are responsible for providing leadership, resources and active support for the implementation of this Policy. 2.2 The ABC Compliance Officer will communicate this Policy to all levels of the Group and relevant external parties at least annually, and at such other times as he considers appropriate, such as when this Policy is amended or updated. 2.3 The Board of Directors oversees compliance with this Policy. The ABC Compliance Officer has day to day responsibility for implementing this Policy. Key aspects of the ABC Compliance Officer’s responsibilities are set out in section 15. 3. Definitions of Bribery and Corruption 3.1 ABC means anti-Bribery and Corruption. 3.2 Anti-Bribery and Corruption Laws means the ABC laws and regulations applicable to the Company, the Group and their employees, including but not limited to the Penal Code 1860, the Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2004, the Prevention of Money Laundering Act 2012, the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947 (“Bangladesh Anti-Corruption Law”), in their current form and in each case as amended, re- enacted or replaced from time to time. 3.3 Bribe / Bribery means: the giving, acceptance, solicitation or facilitation of a financial advantage to or by any person which (i) does or might induce, influence or reward the improper performance or non- performance of any activity or function in either the public or private sector, (ii) in itself constitutes the improper performance of a relevant function or activity, (iii) is intended to obtain or retain business or a business advantage, or (iv) any act referred to or considered as bribe in the Anti- Bribery and Corruption Laws. A promise or offer to give, accept, solicit or facilitate a financial advantage will also constitute Bribery. Equally, a violation may occur if you do anything which is prohibited through another person, as much as if you did it yourself. HKG3363062/1165550-0001 Page | 4 3.4 A Financial Advantage may be anything of value. It can be a payment, payoff, influence payment or a ‘kickback’. Equally, it may also take the form of a gift, hospitality or entertainment, or be something intangible, like an offer of employment. 3.5 Corruption means: (i) dishonest or fraudulent conduct by those in power, typically involving Bribery, (ii) any offences defined as corruption under the Anti-Corruption Commission Act 20041 (“Corruption Criminal Act”). 3.6 Facilitation or “Grease” Payments means payments, typically small, made to low-level state officials to obtain or expedite routine actions for specific performance. 3.7 Intermediary(ies) means, generally, agents, representatives, contractors, sub-contractors, consultants, distributors, business partners, vendors and other third parties representing the Group or acting for or on its behalf. 3.8 The term Official includes officers, officials and employees and persons and/or Officials elected or selected but not yet inaugurated of the following, regardless of seniority: (a) Any government, government authority or agency, state official, including those who are defined as “state official” under Bangladesh Anti-Corruption Law; (b) Any entity owned or controlled by a government, government authority or agency; (c) Judicial or legislative bodies; (d) A public international organisation; or (e) Charitable organizations linked to a state official. 4. Prohibition on Bribery and Corruption Criminal Act 4.1 The Group prohibits: (a) Giving Bribes including: (i) Bribing someone to get a contract or other business advantage such as a licence, consent or permit (including from that person or by using that person’s influence); (ii) Bribing any Official, regardless of whether or not such bribe is made to influence any official decision, or to induce them to use their influence to affect any act or decision of a governmental authority; or (iii) Bribing any officer, employee or agent of a company or body corporate with which the Group interacts in the conduct of the Group’s business for the purpose of influencing any act or decision of that company or body corporate. (b) Receiving Bribes including: (i) Asking, agreeing to or receiving a Bribe from anyone in exchange for giving or continuing to give a person any business, or any business advantage, or for otherwise improperly performing any activity or function. (c) Committing or participating in the commission of the Corruption Criminal Act. 4.2 Circumstances which may suggest an increased risk of Bribery or Corruption and which should therefore be discussed with the ABC Compliance Officer include: (a) an Intermediary (as defined below) engaged by the Group or which may be engaged by the Group is accused of improper practices; (b) A party with whom the Group does business requests payment in cash or to offshore accounts; HKG3363062/1165550-0001 Page | 5 (c) Requests for payment, entertainment or hospitality at a time when the recipient is making an important decision that affects or could be perceived to affect the business of the Group; (d) Refusal by an Intermediary to use written agreements; (e) Requests or directions to record (or issue receipts) for payments or fees in a manner which does not reflect their true nature; (f) Previous relationships between Group employees or Intermediaries and a government office or Official; (g) Requests for special payments, such as a ‘special acceleration fee’ or any other payment to reduce delay or remove the need to comply with applicable procedures. 4.3 The above examples are not exhaustive and any matters which are a cause for concern should be promptly raised with the ABC Compliance Officer. 4.4 Practices that may appear typical or customary may still be unlawful and in breach of this Policy. 4.5 The Group should always consider whether any conduct may give an appearance that it creates an obligation on, or may influence, the recipient (or a third party) to act in a way that may be improper, or which may be perceived as being capable of influencing an Official exercise of discretionary authority, even where this is not the intention. Such conduct should be discussed with the ABC Compliance Officer. 5. Dealing with intermediaries 5.1 The Group shall engage Intermediaries only for ordinary and legitimate business purposes and only on arms-length, commercially reasonable terms. 5.2 In general, the Group and Intermediaries should enter into contracts and those must be in writing and must be signed by the parties; in the rare case that a contract is not required, such as for singular purchases of services at set rates, the transactions should be supported by invoices and other supporting documentation but a written contract is not required by this policy. 5.3 Different types of Intermediaries are subject to different ABC risk assessment and risk mitigation measures. The Group’s Intermediary Appointment Policy (available with the ABC Compliance Officer), as included herein, should be consulted for the procedure to be followed when engaging an Intermediary and for the Group’s standard anti-bribery related contractual provisions which are to be included in the Group’s contracts with Intermediaries. In general: (a) The Group expects that Intermediaries, with which the Group does business, to either formally acknowledge and abide by relevant aspects of this Policy, or to have adequate anti- bribery and corruption policies and procedures of their own in place. (b) When engaging an Intermediary, the Group should: (i) perform proportionate and risk-based due diligence checks on the Intermediary in accordance with the Group’s Intermediary Appointment Policy based on an understanding of the potential relationship (e.g. the sector in which the Intermediary operates, the type of services it will be providing and the level of interaction it will have with Officials or private sector parties); and (ii) consider and respond appropriately to the findings of that due diligence, particularly where areas of high concern are identified. 6. Political and Charitable Donations 6.1 The Group supports the political process and the work of registered and reputable charities. HKG3363062/1165550-0001 Page | 6 6.2 However, unless appropriate procedures are adopted, there is a risk that political or charitable donations given by the Group or its employees may be perceived as seeking to improperly influence decisions which affect the Group, or to induce those who have authority to make such decisions to give an improper business advantage to the Group. 6.3 To address these issues the Group has a policy on donations which is set out in the Group Political and Charitable Donations Policy (available with the ABC Compliance Officer and included herein). 6.4 The key principles regarding donations are as follows: (a) donations must not be made using Group funds, under the Group’s name, or in connection with the Group, without first obtaining specific approval from the ABC Compliance Officer in accordance with the Group Political and Charitable Donations Policy; (b) where making a donation as a private citizen, a Group employee should ensure it is made clear to the recipient that the donation is not being made for or on behalf of the Group, or in connection with the activities of the Group; (c) a donation shall not be made either privately or by the Group if the intent or possible effect of the donation is or may be to influence the decisions of any Official or other person on matters affecting the Group; and (d) any donation made as a form of the Group’s corporate social responsibility to the government agency or state shall be made directly to the official state account. 6.5 All donations must be properly recorded and accounted for in the Central Register of Political and Charitable Donations maintained by the ABC Compliance Officer. 7. Gifts, Hospitality and Entertainment 7.1 The Group recognises that constructive business relationships may include occasional, incidental provision of gifts, hospitality and entertainment. 7.2 However, gifts, hospitality and entertainment which are or may be seen as exceptional, lavish or disproportionate, or given to certain individuals who have the ability to make decisions affecting the Group, may be regarded as improper or unlawful. 7.3 The Group therefore has a Gifts, Hospitality and Entertainment Policy (available with the ABC Compliance Officer and included herein) which sets out the circumstances in which gifts, hospitality and entertainment is appropriate and the process for seeking approval from the ABC Compliance Officer. 7.4 As a general rule, gifts, hospitality and entertainment must: (a) be reasonable and proportionate in terms of frequency, value and the status/seniority of the recipient; (b) be provided in an open and transparent manner; and (c) always be provided for legitimate business purposes and in kind only. 7.5 The Group and its employees must not: (a) offer and/or give gifts, hospitality and entertainment, or any other goods to Officials, except when such act of offering or giving is customary, mandated or required by the prevailing laws and regulation. In any event, the Group and its employees is obliged to take the most appropriate assessments to ensure the validity of such laws and regulations and the compliance of such specific law and regulation with the other prevailing laws and regulations. HKG3363062/1165550-0001 Page | 7 (b) offer and/or give gifts, hospitality and entertainment, or anything else of value, which might influence the decisions of counterparties or Officials in connection with the business of the Group; or (c) accept any gifts, hospitality and entertainment, or anything else of value, which might influence their own decisions. 7.6 Group employees should consider the above guidelines in respect of all gifts, hospitality and entertainment which they propose to offer or accept. 7.7 Without prejudice to Section 7.5, any gifts, hospitality and entertainment in excess of equivalent of BDT 5,000 to BDT 15,000 will only be reimbursed if approved by the ABC Compliance Officer. Any gifts, hospitality and entertainment in excess of BDT 15,000 to BDT 25,000 will be reimbursed if approved by the ABC Compliance Officer and CFO. Any gifts, hospitality and entertainment in excess of BDT 25,000 will require the additional approval of the Company’s CEO. 8. Facilitation Payments 8.1 The Company and Group are prohibited from making any Facilitation Payments. 8.2 If a Group employee becomes aware that a Facilitation Payment may be made, this must be referred to the ABC Compliance Officer, who will consider, consult as necessary and recommend action. 8.3 The ABC Compliance Officer will report to the Board of Directors, as they consider necessary, on any matters relating to Facilitation Payments. 9. Conflicts of Interest 9.1 Group employees must seek to avoid any real or perceived conflict between their private interests and the performance of their duties to the Group. 9.2 A conflict of interest arises when an individual’s private interests influence, or may appear to influence, the objective exercise of his or her duties to the Group. Conflicts of interest can arise where, for example, a Group employee and/or the Group is considering business arrangements involving the Group which may provide the employee with a private benefit, or where an employee position within the Group gives them an opportunity to provide special advantages or benefits to third party related to such employee, including but not limited to a partner, child or friend. 9.3 If a situation arises which may give rise to a conflict of interest involving any Group employee or an external party in connection with matters affecting the Group, the issue should be promptly raised with the ABC Compliance Officer. 10. Books and Records 10.1 The books and records of the Group must reflect, accurately and fairly, the transactions of the Group, including ensuring that a transaction is accurately described in our books and records and the amount of each transaction is accurately recorded. 10.2 No payment on behalf of the Group is to be approved or made with the express or implied agreement or the intention that any part of it is to be used for a purpose other than that described by the documents supporting the payment. 10.3 Group employees should never agree to requests for false invoices or for payments of expenses that are unusual, excessive, inadequately or improperly described, or otherwise raise questions under this Policy. 10.4 No undisclosed or unrecorded funds or assets are to be established or used for any purpose. HKG3363062/1165550-0001 Page | 8 11. Training 11.1 Group employees will receive regular (at least annual) training relevant to their role to ensure that they: (a) understand the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Laws applicable to them; (b) are aware of and understand this Policy; (c) are equipped to respond to the specific risks which relate to their particular role; and (d) know what the Group expects of them. 11.2 Group employees should check with the Compliance Officer in connection with engaging Intermediaries. 12. Whistle-Blowing, Investigations and Non-Retaliation 12.1 Group employees and Intermediaries (anonymously or by name) who are aware of possible or suspected corrupt acts by colleagues, demands for Bribes or other violations of Anti-Bribery and Corruption Laws or this Policy must report these to the ABC Compliance Officer in accordance with the Group Whistle Blower and Investigations Policy (available with the ABC Compliance Officer and included herein) (the Whistle Blower Policy). Any such reports will be promptly investigated by the Group in accordance with the Whistle Blower Policy. 12.2 A Group employee or Intermediary will not suffer demotion or any other adverse consequences for refusing to pay Bribes or for reporting in good faith possible corrupt acts by colleagues, demands for Bribes or other suspected violations of Anti-Bribery and Corruption Laws applicable where the Group operates or this Policy, even if it may result in the Group losing business. 12.3 Any Group employee who retaliates, or attempts to retaliate, against a person who has made a report relating to a violation of Anti-Bribery and Corruption Laws or this Policy will be subject to disciplinary action, which may include termination of their employment with the Group. 13. Compliance 13.1 Any Group employee who violates any Anti-Bribery and Corruption Laws or any aspect of this Policy will be subject to disciplinary action, which may include termination of their employment with the Group. 13.2 Group employees should understand that additionally, they could be subject to civil and criminal liability for violations of applicable law. 13.3 The ABC Compliance Officer shall take all measures to avoid the Group from taking any action which might violate any provision in any Anti-Bribery and Corruption Laws or any aspect of this Policy. 13.4 Violations of any Anti-Bribery and Corruption Laws or this Policy should be reported in accordance with section 12 above. 14. Continuous Monitoring and Improvement 14.1 The Board of Directors and ABC Compliance Officer are responsible for monitoring the implementation of and compliance with this Policy, as well as the periodic review and update of this Policy, including any adjustments which are required to comply with changes in Anti-Bribery and Corruption Laws. 14.2 In line with this, the ABC Compliance Officer will report to the Board of Directors - (a) on a yearly basis, on general compliance by the Group with this Policy and its effectiveness; and HKG3363062/1165550-0001 Page | 9 (b) annually on the above matters in connection with the annual ABC risk assessment and audit (see 14.4 below). 14.3 The ABC Compliance Officer will also notify the Board of Directors promptly should he/she become aware of any particular instance of non-compliance (or suspicion of non-compliance) with Anti- Bribery and Corruption Laws or this Policy, especially for matters that are considered to be material or urgent by the ABC Compliance Officer. 14.4 The Group carries out an annual ABC risk assessment and audit to assess the effectiveness of this Policy. The terms of reference of such audits are set annually by the Board of Directors, which will also oversee the annual audit. Where issues are identified, the Board of Directors will prescribe appropriate remedial measures to be implemented by the Group in order to address these. 14.5 Any material deficiencies in this Policy which are identified by Group employees during the year should be reported to the ABC Compliance Officer who will consider and consult with the Board of Directors on any appropriate action to be taken. 15. The ABC Compliance Officer / Legal, Secretarial & Corporate Governance Division 15.1 The Company will employ an ABC Compliance Officer who is responsible for day to day implementation and oversight of this Policy. These responsibilities also include2: (a) receiving and investigating reports of ABC-related incidents; (b) escalating known ABC issues to the Audit and Risk Committee set up by the Board of Directors (“Audit and Risk Committee”), as appropriate; (c) reporting to the Audit and Risk Committee as set out above; (d) ensuring that Group employees complete ABC questionnaires and certifications (as relevant) in a timely manner; (e) conducting regular spot checks of compliance with this Policy and the Group’s books and records; (f) providing guidance to Group employees on this Policy; and (g) record keeping in connection with this Policy and associated training. 15.2 The ABC Compliance Officer must keep himself/herself well-informed and updated on any development in the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Laws. 16. Advice and Assistance 16.1 Employees should contact the ABC Compliance Officer for advice and assistance on any matters relating to this Policy. HKG3363062/1165550-0001 Page | 10 Group Political and Charitable Donations Policy Policy 1.1 This document sets out the Group’s Policy on the making of political or charitable donations by the Group and Group employees. It should be read in conjunction with the Group Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy. 1.2 A charitable donation means any item of value, whether in cash or in kind, given to a cause and/or for charitable purposes to a recognised, reputable and registered charity or a fund established by the government of Bangladesh for charitable purposes4 or a public international organisation. 1.3 Charitable donations made on behalf of the Group must only ever be made to (i) a fund established by the government of Bangladesh for charitable purposes or (ii) bona fide charities, being those (a) which are recognised as such by the government, either through registration with a competent authority of the government or by the grant of an exemption, as a charitable organisation, from paying income tax on donations; and (b) which the ABC Compliance Officer determines to be bona fide prior to the giving of the donation, having conducted appropriate due diligence on the history, reputation, performance and charter documents of the organization. 1.4 For any questions about donations or the operation of this Policy, employees should contact the ABC Compliance Officer. Group donations 1.5 Group employees (including senior management, executives and directors) should not make any political or charitable donation using Group funds, under the Group’s name, or in connection with the Group, without first obtaining approval in accordance with this Policy. 1.6 Donations are permissible where: (a) they serve a legitimate purpose; (b) they are not intended (nor would appear to be intended) to influence the decisions of any Official or other person on matters affecting the Group; (c) they are reasonable and proportionate; and (d) they are made transparently. 1.7 No single charitable donation shall exceed BDT 4,000,000 and aggregate amount of donations shall not exceed BDT 20,000,000 in a financial year. 1.8 Donations must not be used as a subterfuge for Bribery and Corruption, improper influence, money laundering or terrorist financing. 1.9 A donation may only be paid by way of electronic transfer of funds to a bank account in the name of the recipient organisation, held at a reputable bank. Donations must not be paid in cash or cash equivalents (e.g. vouchers), unless such donation is documented and a receipt for such donation is provided. 1.10 Charitable donations to organisations in which Officials have a role may be considered to provide a benefit to those Officials. A Charitable Donation to such an organisation should not be made without first discussing this with the ABC Compliance Officer. 1.11 All donations made by the Group must be disclosed in the company’s Annual Accounts. HKG3363062/1165550-0001 Page | 11 Private donations 1.12 If a Group employee makes a donation in a private capacity, to the extent necessary or appropriate in the particular circumstances, the employee should ensure it is made clear to the recipient that the donation is not being made for or on behalf of, or in connection with the activities of, the Group. 1.13 Group employees are prohibited from making personal donations if the intent or possible effect of such donation is or may be to influence the decisions of any Official or any person on matters affecting the Group. Approval Process for group donations 2.1 All donations made by or on behalf of the Group must be approved in advance by the ABC Compliance Officer. Approval is sought by completing and submitting the Political and Charitable Donations Approval Form (see Appendix). 2.2 If necessary due to the sensitivity or value of the donation, the ABC Compliance Officer should forward the request to the Company CEO and CFO for approval. 2.3 Any request for a donation of a value greater than BDT 800,000 must be forwarded by the Compliance Officer or the Company CEO and CFO to the Company Board of Directors for approval. 2.4 Set out below is a non-exhaustive list of factors the ABC Compliance Officer and (where applicable) the Company CEO and CFO may take into consideration when deciding whether or not to approve a donation: (a) Is the donation compliant with applicable laws and policies/procedures? (b) Is there a legitimate reason for the donation? (c) Is the donation reasonable and proportionate? (d) Is the donation being made in an open and transparent manner (and not through an Intermediary)? (e) Has an Intermediary or Official (in particular any Official with decision-making authority over the Group’s business) requested that the donation be made? (f) Is the recipient closely connected with an Intermediary or Official (in particular any Official with the authority to make decisions which directly affect the Group’s business)? (g) Are there any factors which indicate a link between the donation and the obtaining or retaining of business or a business advantage by the Group, or which appears to have been given for or in connection with the improper performance of a function or activity? (h) Is there a risk that the donation is being used as subterfuge for bribery and corruption, money laundering or terrorist financing? 2.5 The ABC Compliance Officer, Company CEO and CFO and/or Board of Directors (as applicable) must document in writing their reasons for approving the donation. Record keeping and Review 3.1 All Political and Charitable Donations must be properly recorded and accounted for in the Group’s books and records. 3.2 All Donations Approval Forms must be submitted to the ABC Compliance Officer who will hold them on file for a period of five years. HKG3363062/1165550-0001 Page | 12 3.3 The Annual Political and Charitable Donations Central Register must be submitted to, and reviewed annually by, the Board of Directors. 3.4 The ABC Compliance Officer, with the approval of the Audit and Risk Committee, may periodically revise the thresholds set out in paragraphs 1.8 and 2.3 above to ensure they are set at an appropriate level. 3.5 The ABC Compliance Officer, in consultation with the Audit and Risk Committee, may prescribe appropriate guidelines or criteria to aid the implementation of this Policy. HKG3363062/1165550-0001 Page | 13 Appendix Political and Charitable Donations Approval Form Description of proposed donation and reason for it Political or Charitable Donation (Delete as appropriate) Political/Charitable Value, nature (in cash/in kind) and method of provision of proposed donation Date of proposed donation Name of employee requesting proposed donation Job title Department Recipient of the proposed donation: - Name - Organisation contact details - Name and contact details of personal contact within the organisation Describe the nature and purpose of the intended recipient of the proposed donation. Does the recipient have any relationship with the Group? Does the recipient have any relationship with an Official (including any Official with decision-making authority over the Group’s business)? Does the recipient have any relationship with a Group Intermediary? Has the recipient received a donation from the Group in the past 12 months? If so, please provide details. Does the timing of the donation coincide with any key business decision/transaction in Contemplation (or recently concluded) involving the Group or any Group employee and the recipient/donor of the donation? If so, please provide details. HKG3363062/1165550-0001 Page | 14 Any other relevant information I confirm that this donation complies with the Political and Charitable Donations Policy Request for approval by [name of requestor]: Signature Date I confirm that this donation complies with the Political and Charitable Donations Policy Pre-approved by [name of ABC Compliance Officer] Signature Date I confirm that this donation complies with the Political and Charitable Donations Policy Pre-approved by [name of CFO] Signature Date I confirm that this donation complies with the Political and Charitable Donations Policy Pre-approved by [name of CEO] Signature Date I confirm that this donation complies with the Political and Charitable Donations Policy and has been approved by a resolution of [the Board of Directors] Pre-approved by [name of Chairman of the Board] Signature Date HKG3363062/1165550-0001 Page | 15 Group Gifts, Hospitality and Entertainment Policy and Procedures Policy 1.1 This document sets out the Group’s Policy on giving and receiving gifts, hospitality and entertainment (GH&E). It should be read in conjunction with the Group Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy. 1.2 GH&E which is or may be regarded as, exceptional, lavish or disproportionate and/or intended to induce or reward improper conduct is prohibited. 1.3 Group employees must not offer, provide, accept or solicit gifts in the form of cash, cash equivalents, commissions, loans, securities or goods/services at below-market value. 1.4 The Group must pay all costs associated with GH&E (e.g. transport, accommodation and meals) directly to suppliers and not to the recipients of the GH&E. 1.5 GH&E must not be offered or provided to family members or friends of the recipient. 1.6 GH&E to Officials is prohibited, unless such GH&E is mandated or required by the prevailing laws and regulations. In any event, if any GH&E is contemplated to be given to an Official, ABC Compliance Officer must be consulted in advance and issue an approval in writing. The Group and its employees is obliged to take the most appropriate assessments to ensure the validity of such laws and regulations and the compliance of such specific law and regulation with the other prevailing laws and regulations. 1.7 Approval of GH&E, including GH&E relating to Officials (in strict observance to the provisions in Section 1.6 of this GH&E Policy and Procedures), is required in accordance with this Policy and must be obtained in advance of any offer or acceptance of GH&E. If circumstances prevent obtaining advance approval, the Group may not approve the reimbursement of the GH&E expenditure and the GH&E must be reported to the ABC Compliance Officer at the earliest available opportunity. 1.8 Failure to comply with this Policy may result in disciplinary action, including possible termination of employment. 1.9 For any questions about offering or accepting GH&E or the operation of this Policy, employees should contact the ABC Compliance Officer. Approval process 2.1 Any GH&E in excess of BDT 15,000 to BDT 25,000 requires the additional approval of the CFO and any amount in excess of BDT 25,000 will require the additional approval of the Company’s CEO. GH&E given to the same recipient and on the same occasion must be considered and valued collectively. 2.2 Any Group employee wishing to offer or receive GH&E must complete the GH&E Approval Form (see Appendix) and submit it to the ABC Compliance Officer for approval. 2.3 Set out below is a non-exhaustive list of factors which the ABC Compliance Officer and (where required) the Company CEO and CFO may take into consideration when deciding whether or not to approve a GH&E request: 1. Is the GH&E compliant with applicable laws, policies/procedures and market practice? 2. Is there a genuine business or commercial rationale for the GH&E? 3. Is the GH&E reasonable and proportionate having regard to the business rationale, position and status of the recipient and appropriate to the occasion? 4. Is the GH&E being given in an open and transparent manner? Is it to be given or received through an intermediary (rather than directly)? 5. Is the GH&E being given with undue frequency to the same recipient? HKG3363062/1165550-0001 Page | 16 6. Is there any indication that the GH&E contains an element of reciprocity or an expectation of receiving something in return for the GH&E, or a risk that the GH&E will influence the intended recipient’s objectivity? 7. Is the GH&E being given at a time when prospective business or key business decisions/transactions involving the Group and the recipient (e.g. an award of a contract) are in contemplation (or have recently been concluded)? 8. Is the GH&E being given to an Official? As a general rule, GH&E to Official is prohibited. However, without prejudice to Section 1.6 of this GH&E Policy and Procedures, if the GH&E to an Official is so conducted, the GH&E should be carefully scrutinised by the ABC Compliance Officer and extreme caution exercised before granting approval. Record keeping and Review 3.1 All GH&E must be properly recorded and accounted for in the Group’s books and records and must be supported by original receipts. 3.2 All GH&E Approval Forms (whether approved or declined) must be held on file by the Compliance Officer for a period of five years. 3.3 GH&E with a value in excess of BDT 8,000 must be recorded by the ABC Compliance Officer in the Annual GH&E Central Register. 3.4 The Annual GH&E Central Register must be submitted to, and reviewed annually by, the Board of Directors. 3.5 The ABC Compliance Officer, with the approval of the Audit and Risk Committee, may periodically revise the thresholds set out in paragraphs 2.1 and 3.3 above to ensure they are set at an appropriate level. 3.6 The ABC Compliance Officer, in consultation with the Audit and Risk Committee, may prescribe appropriate guidelines or criteria to aid the implementation of this Policy. HKG3363062/1165550-0001 Page | 17 Appendix Gifts, Hospitality And Entertainment Approval Form Name of Applicant Job title/Department Recipient/Donor of the GH&E (attach a separate sheet where appropriate): • Name and job title • Company/organisation What is the nature of your/the Group business dealings with the recipient/donor and his/her company/organisation? Description of GH&E Purpose of GH&E Estimated value (in BDT, per person and in aggregate) and method of payment / provision of GH&E Does the GH&E involve an Official? If so, please provide details. Have GH&E been given previously to this recipient in this calendar year? If so, please Does the timing of the GH&E coincide with any key business decision / transaction in contemplation (or recently concluded) involving the Group or any Group employee and the recipient/donor of the GH&E? If so, please provide details. Any other relevant information I confirm that this GH&E complies with the GH&E Policy Signature Date I confirm that this GH&E complies with the GH&E Policy Pre-approved by [ABC Compliance Officer/CEO/CFO] Signatures Date HKG3363062/1165550-0001 Page | 18 Group Whistle Blower and Investigations Policy Introduction 1.1 This document sets out the Group’s Policy on the confidential or anonymous filing, retention and treatment of complaints regarding (a) accounting, internal accounting controls, or auditing matters (collectively Accounting Matters), (b) bribery and insider trading, (c) violations of the Group’s rules or policies, and (d) other violations of laws or regulations (Whistle blowing Policy). It should be read in conjunction with the Group Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABC) Policy. 1.2 Until further notice, this policy is applicable to all officers and employees of the Group. 1.3 The policy is not a replacement for the usual reporting mechanisms but aims at striking a fair balance between the Group’s legitimate interests of prevention of fraud and misconduct and the fundamental rights of its employees and officers, in particular with respect to the processing of personal data relating to them. Submission of Complaints 2.1 The usual channel to report any suspected violations is to the employee’s or officer’s direct supervisor. Advice and assistance may also be sought from the ABC Compliance Officer. 2.2 However, in circumstances where the employee or officer (Whistle Blower) believes that reporting suspected violations or compliance questions to the direct supervisor is inappropriate, the Whistle Blower may submit his or her concern or compliant in writing to the ABC Compliance Officer by regular mail, electronic mail or facsimile as follows: M Mazedul Islam Chief Legal Officer & Company Secretary, Legal, Secretarial & Corporate Governance E-Mail: mazedul.islam@bkash.com Contact no: +8801707008555 2.3 The Whistle Blower should include a telephone number with the compliant submission at which he or she may be contacted if the Whistle Blower requests contact or if the ABC Compliance Officer determines that contact is appropriate. Scope of Matters Covered by the Whistle blowing Policy 3.1 The Whistle Blowing Policy applies to concerns or complaints relating to: (a) Any questionable Accounting Matters including, without limitation, the following: (i) Fraud or deliberate error in the preparation, evaluation, review or audit of any financial statement of the Group; (ii) Fraud or deliberate error in the recording and maintaining of financial records of the Group; (iii) Deficiencies in or non-compliance with the Group’s internal accounting controls; (iv) Misrepresentation or false statement by an officer or employee regarding a matter contained in the Group’s financial records, financial reports or audit reports; (v) Deviation from full and fair reporting of the Group’s financial condition; (b) Bribery and Insider trading; (c) Violations of the Group’s rules or policies, including, without limitation, the following: HKG3363062/1165550-0001 Page | 19 (i) Conflict of interest; (ii) Embezzlement; (iii) Theft; (iv) Causing unsafe working conditions; (v) Antitrust activity; (vi) Improper giving or receiving of gifts; (vii) Disclosure of confidential information; (viii) Manipulation or falsification of data, reports, contracts; (ix) Unethical conduct; (x) Political contributions & mandates; (xi) Code of responsible commercial communication; (xii) Harm to people; (d) Violations of applicable laws or regulations. 3.2 Data relating to the Group’s employees’ or officers’ private life, as well as broad and farfetched interpretations of “unethical” or “improper” behaviour, will be excluded from the Whistle blowing Policy. Processing of Complaints submitted by Whistle Blowers 4.1 The ABC Compliance Officer, CHRO, CFO, and Company’s CEO (collectively the Designated Persons) are responsible for overseeing the treatment of complaints submitted by Whistle Blowers. 4.2 Upon receipt of a concern or complaint by a Whistle Blower, one or more of the Designated Persons will (i) determine whether the concern or complaint is within the scope of matters covered by the Whistle blowing Policy, (ii) determine whether more information is required, and (iii) determine whether further investigation is required. 4.3 Within five business days of receiving a concern or complaint, one of the Designated Persons will provide a preliminary response to the Whistle Blower. This preliminary response will indicate whether (i) additional information is needed, (ii) the complaint should be redirected to the appropriate channel, and (ii) the compliant is being investigated by the Designated Persons. 4.4 Legitimate concerns or complaints will be thoroughly investigated by one or more of the Designated Persons and referred to the appropriate channel accordingly. Confidentiality will be maintained to the fullest extent possible, consistent with the need to conduct an adequate review. 4.5 Prompt and appropriate corrective action will be taken when and as warranted in the judgment of the Designated Person(s) responsible for investigating such concern or complaint. 4.6 When possible and appropriate, notice of any corrective action taken will be given to the Whistle Blower who submitted the concern or complaint. 4.7 If an investigation is carried out, the Designated Person(s) will inform the person accused in the concern or complaint of (i) the facts that he or she is accused of, and (2) the relevant departments or persons that might receive the concern or complaint. Notification will also occur when any personal data is received during the investigation process. However, where there is substantial risk that such notifications will jeopardize the Designated Person(s) ability to investigate the allegation or gather the necessary evidence, notification to the accused person may be delayed as long as such risk exists. HKG3363062/1165550-0001 Page | 20 4.8 To the extent allowed or required by law, facts reported or revealed during the investigation process may be communicated to the relevant public bodies or authorities. Protection and Duties of the Whistle Blower 5.1 Any employee or officer of the Group may submit, in good faith, a complaint regarding suspected violations of matters listed in Section 3.1 without fear of dismissal or retaliation of any kind. The Group will not discharge, demote, suspend, threaten, harass or in any manner discriminate against the Whistle Blower based upon his or her good faith reporting of concerns or complaints, even if the facts are later found to be incorrect or inconclusive. On the other hand, those who abuse the Whistle blowing Policy will be given the appropriate sanctions. 5.2 To the extent permitted by law, the identity of the Whistle Blower will be kept confidential at all stages of the process and, in particular, will not be disclosed to third parties, either to the accused person or the Whistle Blower’s supervisor(s). 5.3 By filing a Whistle Blower complaint, the Whistle Blower acknowledges and agrees that the Group may process, store and otherwise use the reported information as they deem appropriate to investigate and take appropriate action in response to the complaint. In this respect, it should be noted that the Group has adequate protections in place to process and transfer any personal data received in compliance with the relevant laws and regulations. Protection of the Accused Person 6.1 Any whistle blower policy carries a risk of stigmatizing or victimizing the person that has been accused. Such person(s) may be exposed to such risks even before the person(s) becomes aware that he or she has been incriminated and the alleged facts have been investigated to determine whether or not they are substantiated. 6.2 Therefore, this Whistle Blower Policy contains a series of safeguards: (a) Data collected will always be processed in accordance with data protection laws and regulations; (b) Data will only be collected for the purpose of pursuing the Group’s legitimate interests of preventing fraud and misconduct in breach of its rules and policies. In this respect, it should be noted that only the following data will be gathered: (i) Identity, job title and contact information of the Whistle Blower; (ii) Identity, job title and contact information of the person(s) accused; (iii) Identity, job title and contact information of the person(s) involved with the collection or the processing of the Whistle Blower complaint; (iv) Data relevant to the alleged facts, and the relevant procedures taken to collect and verify such facts; (v) Accounts or summaries of the investigations made; and (vi) Any follow-ups to the complaint. (c) To avoid abusive complaints, a specific questionnaire will be used to determine the veracity of Whistle Blower complaints. Anonymous complaints will be subject to additional questions. (d) As detailed in Section 8, the relevant data collected during a Whistle Blower investigation, including all personal data, will be kept only for the period of time strictly necessary for the purposes of the Group’s legitimate investigation needs. HKG3363062/1165550-0001 Page | 21 (e) The accused person(s) will be provided the appropriate notifications stated in Section 4.7, subject to the limitations stated in that section. (f) The accused person(s) will have the opportunity to access the relevant and appropriate data related to the investigation to verify their accuracy, and to make rectifications if the data is inaccurate, incomplete, improperly characterized or outdated. Reporting of Whistle Blower Complaints & Investigations 7.1 The Designated Person(s) responsible for carrying out Whistle Blower investigations will maintain a log of all concerns and complaints, which will track their receipt, investigation and resolution. A periodical summary report will be prepared and distributed to Company’s Board of Directors and any other personnel considered appropriate by the ABC Compliance Officer. Data Retention Periods 8.1 Personal data obtained in a Whistle Blower investigation will be deleted promptly after the data is no longer required, or within two months of the completion of the investigation. 8.2 When disciplinary measures or legal proceedings are initiated against the accused person (or the Whistle Blower in cases of false or slanderous submissions), personal data will be retained until the conclusion of these proceedings and the expiration of the period allowed for any appeals. 8.3 If a complaint is determined to be unsubstantiated or inconclusive, any relevant personal data obtained in the course of the investigation will be deleted without delay. Also, personal data provided by the Whistle Blower that are either subjective or irrelevant for investigative purposes will be removed and deleted without delay. HKG3363062/1165550-0001 Page | 22 Group Intermediary Appointment Policy and Procedures Introduction 1.1 In order to effectively manage Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABC) risks, the Group should carry out an appropriate ABC risk assessment and due diligence on a proposed Intermediary. 1.2 This Policy should be read in conjunction with the Group Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy. Initial risk assessment 2.1 The Group will undertake a risk assessment of the proposed Intermediary, having regard to the following: (a) Regional Risk – Does the Intermediary operate in a region perceived to have high levels of Bribery and Corruption, an absence of an effectively enforced ABC legal framework? (b) Sector Risk – Does the Intermediary operate in a sector that is perceived as higher risk in terms of Bribery and Corruption risks? (c) Business Opportunity Risk – What is the nature of the services to be provided by the Intermediary? Will the Intermediary be engaged on or in connection with a significant or high- value Group project? Is the contract with the Intermediary a high-value contract? (d) Business Partnership Risk – Will the Intermediary be interfacing or transacting with Officials (e.g. obtaining permits or licences) on behalf of the Group? Will the Intermediary be engaging and/or making payments to other parties on behalf of the Group? 2.2 The proposed Intermediary must complete an ABC due diligence questionnaire (the Questionnaire) in the form at Appendix 1. The Group must provide the completed Questionnaire to the ABC Compliance Officer. Due diligence Review of Information 3.1 The scope of the due diligence review should be assessed on a case-by-case basis, with regard to factors such as the initial risk assessment and the materiality of the contract or other relationship with the Intermediary. For those intermediaries who will interface with Officials or for whom “red flags” are identified during the due diligence review, additional inquiry may be appropriate, as determined by the ABC Compliance Officer. 3.2 The ABC Compliance Officer will review the completed Questionnaire and also assess any “red flags” in order to assess what further due diligence measures may be required. Examples of “red flags” are where the proposed Intermediary: 1. is the subject of credible rumours or media reports of Bribery or Corrupt activities, improper business practices or of conduct falling short of generally accepted standards of business ethics and conduct; 2. has been convicted, charged with, investigated for, or is suspected of, violation of local or foreign ABC laws; 3. lacks the expertise, personnel or resources to undertake the proposed services or perform the proposed contract; 4. charges fees, commissions or prices that are out of proportion to the value of the underlying goods or services; HKG3363062/1165550-0001 Page | 23 5. submits incorrect, misleading or inconsistent information in response to due diligence requests; or 6. resists appropriate ABC contractual protections or refuses to comply with applicable ABC laws. 7. is related to Official which authority or position may have an effect to the activities of the Group. Meetings with the Intermediary 3.3 Based on the ABC Compliance Officer determination during due diligence, the Group may also meet with the Intermediary to discuss its ABC policies and procedures, any risks identified in the risk assessment and due diligence above, the Intermediary’s understanding of those risks and how these could be addressed. External Review 3.4 If required in the particular circumstances (e.g., higher risk intermediary, significant government interaction anticipated or higher value project), the ABC Compliance Officer may authorise the Group to engage external consultants to carry out independent ABC due diligence on the Intermediary. Approval of Intermediary 4.1 If the risk assessment/due diligence is satisfactory, the Compliance Office may authorize the commencement of the formal appointment process. 4.2 As part of the appointment process, the ABC Compliance Officer may consider whether it would be prudent in the case of a particular Intermediary to put in place additional measures/protections such as specific contractual provisions, reporting obligations, ABC training, etc. The ABC Compliance Officer may also consider which (if any) of the Group’s policies should be provided to the Intermediary and/or which policies the Intermediary should agree to abide by. 4.3 The steps taken and results of due diligence on Intermediaries must be documented by the Compliance Officer. 4.4 Due diligence on an Intermediary engaged for more than a 12-month period should be updated annually by undertaking suitable searches and, where considered appropriate, requesting an updated Questionnaire. Contractual Arrangements 5.1 All arrangements with Intermediaries must be in writing and signed by appropriately authorised personnel of the Group and the Intermediary. 5.2 All contracts with Intermediaries must include the Standard ABC Contractual Protections which are set out in Appendix 2. Additional contractual provisions may also be appropriate (e.g. requiring the Intermediary to adopt ABC policies/procedures acceptable to the Group), depending on the results of the due diligence process. The ABC Compliance Officer should also consider whether or not the Intermediary may be subject to ABC laws for other jurisdictions and, if so, consider whether amendments to the standard contractual provisions, or further contractual provisions, are necessary in order to reflect this. 5.3 The ABC Compliance Officer should be consulted in respect of all contracts to be entered into with Intermediaries. 5.4 The ABC Compliance Officer, in consultation with the Audit and Risk Committee, may prescribe appropriate guidelines or criteria to aid the implementation of this Policy. HKG3363062/1165550-0001 Page | 24 Appendix 11 Due Diligence Questionnaire 1. Name of entity, including trade names (or name of individual if a sole proprietorship): 2. Address: Email: Telephone: Facsimile: 3. Legal Form □ Individual □ Corporation □ Partnership □ Other 4. Do you expect to have any interactions with Government/Public Entities, or government/public officials or employees of the same, on behalf of the Group ? ☐ yes ☐ no If yes, please explain. 5. Do you know or have any reason to believe that any state/public official or any other individual will obtain a personal financial benefit as a result of your relationship with the Group? ☐ yes ☐ no If yes, please explain. 6. Do you have an anti-bribery and corruption policy and/or procedures? ☐yes ☐no. If yes, please provide a copy of those policies and procedures to the Group. If not, are you prepared to adopt and implement anti-bribery and corruption policies and procedures?☐ yes ☐ no. 7. Have you or your business, or any of its board members, executive officers, Owners or employees, ever been the subject of an investigation by a law enforcement or other government agency for alleged violations of, or been found by a Court or agency to have violated, any anti-bribery or corruption laws or any other criminal or securities laws? ☐ yes ☐ no If yes, please explain. 8. Have you ever conducted any internal investigation(s) regarding alleged or actual violations of any anti- bribery or corruption laws or criminal or securities laws? ☐ yes ☐ no. If yes, please explain. Certification I hereby certify that the answers to the foregoing questions are accurate and complete to the best of my knowledge. Dated: ______________________________ Signed: ______________________________ ____________________________________ PRINT NAME AND POSITION 1 Note to draft: Question 4(c) has been deleted as it was not practically workable, it would not be possible to obtain this information prior to onboarding all intermediaries. We have therefore simplified the DDQ HKG3363062/1165550-0001 Page | 25 Appendix 2 Standard Contractual Protections The following provisions should be included in all contracts with intermediaries. 1. [insert relevant Intermediary] shall not in connection to this Agreement, either directly or indirectly, offer, promise, pay, give or authorise (tacitly or otherwise) any financial or other advantage: (a) to any person in order to induce, influence or reward the improper performance of a function or activity in connection with a business or organisation, a person’s employment, or a public function; or (b) to any Official to influence that Official in the performance of their functions in order to retain or obtain business or a business advantage. 2. [insert relevant Intermediary] shall comply at all times with Anti-Bribery and Corruption Laws. The following provisions may, at the determination of the ABC Compliance Officer be included in contracts with Intermediaries. 3. [insert relevant Intermediary] hereby represents and warrants to [insert the Group Company that is party to the relevant contract] that, as at the date of this Agreement, it has in place adequate policies, systems, controls and procedures designed to prevent it from violating any Anti-Bribery and Corruption Laws. 4. [insert relevant Intermediary] and each member of its group shall use their best endeavours to (i) prevent any person who performs services for or on their behalf from carrying out the activities referred to in section 1 and 2 above; and (ii) to ensure such persons comply with Anti-Bribery and Corruption Laws. 5. [insert relevant Intermediary] shall notify [insert the Group Company that is party to the relevant contract] immediately of an actual or suspected breach of Anti-Bribery and Corruption Laws in connection with any project of [insert the Group Company that is party to the relevant contract] on which it is engaged. 6. [insert relevant Intermediary] shall facilitate training in relation to ABC, if so requested by [insert the Group Company that is party to the relevant contract], for its employees, officers or contractors who are involved in projects of [insert the Group Company that is party to the relevant contract]. 7. If: (a) there has been a finding by the Government that [insert relevant Intermediary] has committed or otherwise been involved in a breach of any Anti-Bribery and Corruption Laws (for example, a court judgment or regulatory order that a violation of any Anti- Bribery and Corruption Laws has occurred, or a conviction under any Anti-Bribery and Corruption Laws) or a finding that conduct in breach of sections 1 and/or 2 above has occurred; or (b) [insert the Group Company that is party to the relevant contract] reasonably believes that [insert relevant Intermediary] has committed or otherwise been involved in a breach of any Anti-Bribery and Corruption Laws or has committed a breach of sections 1 and/or 2 above, such belief to be based on objective criteria, for example and without limitation, a charge sheet or show cause notice from the police, an investigative agency or regulatory authority, a public investigation instigated, anomalies uncovered by [insert the Group HKG3363062/1165550-0001 Page | 26 Company that is party to the relevant contract] or by its [ABC Compliance Officer/Legal] in an audit or control process, then: (c) in the case of any such finding or belief in relation to any Anti-Bribery and Corruption Laws or a breach of sections 1 and/or 2 above, [insert the Group Company that is party to the contract] shall have the right to terminate [this Agreement] immediately (without damages or other sanction); and 8. In the event of any finding or belief contemplated by section 7: (a) [insert relevant Intermediary] shall provide to [insert the Group Company that is party to the relevant contract] (on the understanding that it may be shared with other members of the Group and/or its shareholders) all information (as may be required by [insert the Group Company that is party to the relevant contract]) relating to the matter giving rise to the finding or belief (as applicable) within [30] days of a request by [insert the Group Company that is party to the relevant contract]; and (b) [insert relevant Intermediary] shall procure that its employees and officers shall promptly give all assistance, information and explanations to [insert the Group Company that is party to the relevant contract] or its employees and its professional advisers as they may reasonably request, and, if [insert relevant Intermediary] fails to comply with sections [8(a)] and/or [8(b)], [insert the Group Company that is party to the relevant contract] shall have the right to terminate [this Agreement] immediately (without damages or other sanction). Definitions ABC means anti-Bribery and Corruption. Anti-Bribery and Corruption Laws means the ABC laws and regulations applicable to the Company, the Group and their employees, including but not limited to [ ]7 (“Bangladesh Anti-Corruption Law”), in their current form and in each case as amended, re-enacted or replaced from time to time. Bribery means the offer, promise, giving, acceptance, solicitation or facilitation of a financial advantage to or by any person, either directly or indirectly, which (i) does or might induce, influence or reward the improper performance or non-performance of any activity or function in either the public or private sector;(ii) is in itself the improper performance of any activity or function; (iii) is intended to obtain or retain business or a business advantage, or (iv) any act referred to or considered as bribe in the Anti- Bribery and Corruption Laws A promise or offer to give, accept, solicit or facilitate a financial advantage will also constitute Bribery. Equally, a violation may occur if you do anything which is prohibited through another person, as much as if you did it yourself. Corruption means: (i) dishonest or fraudulent conduct by those in power, typically involving Bribery, (ii) acts categorized as corruption criminal act in the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Laws (“Corruption Criminal Act”) Government means the government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh, any state and/or any political subdivision thereof and any department, ministry, authority, court or other body HKG3363062/1165550-0001 Page | 27 lawfully exercising powers or functions of government, and the government of any other jurisdiction relevant to [insert parties to the relevant contract], their business or their projects. Official means (a) Official as defined in the Policy, (b) any officers, officials, employees and representative of, or any other person acting in an official capacity for or on behalf of, any (i) Government(including, but not limited to, someone who holds a legislative, administrative or judicial position of any kind, whether appointed or elected); (ii) government-owned or controlled entity;; or (iii) public international organisation; or (c) any person who exercises a public function for or on behalf of a country or region or for any public agency or enterprise of (or under the control or supervision of) that country or region.